---
layout: post
title:  "What is SEO and how does it help your business?"
date:   2021-11-19 1A7:04:45 +0200
categories: Marketing
excerpt: 'How to implement SEO in digital Marketing.'
---

Today, 93% of consumers and businesses search the internet before buying a product or service. They submit their keywords for search and get a list of relevant websites in return. 

People tend to visit websites that are at the top of these lists because they appear to be more relevant to their search. Most found their competitors at the top of this list. Study shows that if you’re not at the top of these lists, you might not be able to reach your potential customers online. If you’ve ever wondered why your competitors rank better than you, it’s because of a marketing technique called SEO. 


### What is SEO?
SEO stands for search engine optimization. It is the process of optimizing any given search word or term for a search engine on your site. This technique helps your site rank higher than millions of other sites in response to certain keywords when searched. The search engine system collects information about every page on the web and can help people find what they’re looking for.  When your page gets higher rankings, it helps more people to find you. To get those high rankings, your website must have all the ingredients that search engines are looking for. This is where SEO helps: SEO looks for texts, contents, links, page titles and other pieces of relevant information contained in your website. For instance, if a person searches for ‘books’ the search engine will narrow the results to show pages that contain that particular word together with other characteristics used for SEO optimization.

To get more business, your website has to be on the first page of all major search engines for the specific keywords that are relevant to your potential customers. Without SEO, your website will never be found by your customers. In today’s competitive world, you need solid SEO techniques to get your website to the top of the search results.


### What can SEO do for your business? 
People are constantly searching the web, and in fact over five billion searches happen daily on Google alone and those searchers are looking for answers to their problems. It could be questions like ‘how do I make pizza’, ‘why would my car not start’, etc. All these types of questions are being asked all the time through search engines and your business can benefit tremendously if your website comes up when people type in searches that are relevant to the services you offer, questions you can answer or content you have on your website. That can help build your brand and drive customers directly to you. 

SEO is such a powerful tool because it expresses an intent. When a person searches for a product or service, it means they’re already interested in buying it. So if your website is top on the list of the search results, that’s an incredible opportunity for you to capture a new customer. 

In other words, SEO is your 24 hours salesman. So no matter what time of the day or what country people are in, when they’re searching, your website can be found, you’re getting that traffic and some of it will end up converting into sales.
